In the last video, you saw
the equations for
back-propagation.
In this video, let's go
over some intuition using
the computation graph for
how those equations
were derived.
This video is
completely optional
so feel free to watch it or not.
You should be able to do
the whole works either way.
Recall that when we talked
about logistic regression,
we had this forward pass
where we compute z, then A,
and then A loss and the
to take derivatives we
had this backward
pass where we can
first compute da and then
go on to compute dz,
and then go on to
compute dw and db.
The definition for the loss
was L of a comma y equals
negative y log A minus 1
minus y times log 1 minus A.
If you're familiar with
calculus and you take
the derivative of
this with respect to A
that will give you
the formula for da.
So da is equal to that.
If you actually figure
out the calculus,
you can show that this is
negative y over A plus 1
minus y over one minus A.
Just kind of derived that from
calculus by taking
derivatives of this.
It turns out when you take
another step backwards
to compute dz,
we then worked out
that dz is equal to A
minus y. I didn't
explain why previously,
but it turns out that from
the chain rule of calculus,
dz is equal to da
times g prime of z.
Where here g of z
equals sigmoid of
z as our activation function
for this output unit in
logistic regression.
Just remember, this is
still logistic regression,
will have X_1, X_2,
X_3, and then just
one sigmoid unit,
and then that gives
us a, gives us y hat.
Here the activation function
was sigmoid function.
As an aside, only for
those of you familiar
with the chain rule of calculus.
The reason for this is
because a is equal
to sigmoid of z,
and so partial of L with respect
to z is equal to partial of
L with respect to
a times da, dz.
Since A is equal
to sigmoid of z.
This is equal to d,
dz g of z,
which is equal to g prime of z.
That's why this expression,
which is dz in our code is
equal to this expression,
which is da in our code
times g prime of z
and so this just that.
That last derivation would
have made sense only if you're
familiar with calculus and
specifically the chain
rule from calculus.
But if not, don't
worry about it,
I'll try to explain the
intuition wherever it's needed.
Then finally, having computed
dz for logistic regression,
we will compute dw,
which it turned out
was dz times x and
db which is just
dz where you have a
single training example.
That was logistic regression.
What we're going to
do when computing
back-propagation for
a neural network
is a calculation
a lot like this,
but only we'll do it twice.
Because now we have not x
going to an output unit,
but x going to a hidden layer
and then going to
an output unit.
Instead of this computation
being one step as we have here,
we'll have two steps here
in this neural network
with two layers.
In this two-layer
neural network,
that is with the input layer,
hidden layer, and
an output layer.
Remember the steps
of a computation.
First, you compute z_1
using this equation
and then compute a_1,
and then you compute z_2.
Notice z_2 also depends on
the parameters W_2 and b_2,
and then based on
z_2 you compute a_2.
Then finally, that
gives you the loss.
What back-propagation does,
is it will go backward to
compute da_2 and then dz_2,
then go back to
compute dW_2 and db_2.
Go back to compute da_1,
dz_1, and so on.
We don't need to take
derivatives with
respect to the input x,
since input x for supervised
learning [inaudible].
We're not trying to optimize x,
so we won't bother
to take derivatives,
at least for supervised
learning with respect to
x. I'm going to skip
explicitly computing da.
If you want, you can
actually compute da^2,
and then use that
to compute dz^2.
But in practice, you
could collapse both of
these steps into one step.
You end up that dz^2 is
equal to a^2 minus y,
same as before, and
you have also going to
write dw^2 and db^2
down here below.
You have that dw^2 is equal
to dz^2 times a^1 transpose,
and db^2 equals dz^2.
This step is quite similar
for logistic regression,
where we had that dw was
equal to dz times x,
except that now, a^1
plays the role of x,
and there's an extra
transpose there.
Because the relationship between
the [inaudible] matrix w
and our individual
parameters w was,
there's a transpose there,
because w is equal
to a row vector.
In the case of
logistic regression
with the single output,
dw^2 is like that, whereas
w here was a column vector.
That's why there's an
extra transpose for a^1,
whereas we didn't for x here
for logistic regression.
This completes half
of backpropagation.
Then again, you
can compute da^1,
if you wish although
in practice,
the computation for da^1,
and dz^1 are usually
collapsed into one step.
What you'd actually implement
is that dz^1 is equal to
w^2 transpose times
dz^2 and then,
times an element-wise
product of g^1 prime of z^1.
Just to do a check
on the dimensions.
If you have a neural network
that looks like this,
outputs y if so.
If you have n^0
and x equals n^0,
and for features,
n^1 hidden units,
and n^2 so far,
and n^2 in our case,
just one output unit,
then the matrix w^2 is
n^2 by n^1 dimensional,
z^2, and therefore,
dz^2 are going
to be n^2 by one-dimensional.
There's really going
to be a one by one
when we're doing
binary classification,
and z^1, and therefore also dz^1
are going to be n^1
by one-dimensional.
Note that for any variable,
foo and dfoo always have
the same dimensions.
That's why, w and dw always
have the same dimension.
Similarly, for b and db,
and z and dz, and so on.
To make sure that the dimensions
of these all match up,
we have that dz^1 is equal to
w^2 transpose, times dz^2.
Then, this is an
element-wise product times
g^1 prime of z^1.
Mashing the dimensions
from above,
this is going to be n^1 by 1,
is equal to w^2 transpose,
we transpose of this.
It is just going to be,
n^1 by n^2-dimensional,
dz^2 is going to be n^2
by one-dimensional.
Then, this is same
dimension as z^.
This is also, n^1 by
one-dimensional, so
element-wise product.
The dimensions do make sense.
N^1 by one-dimensional
vector can be
obtained by n^1 by n^2
dimensional matrix,
times n^2 by n^1,
because the product of
these two things gives you
an n^1 by
one-dimensional matrix.
This becomes the
element-wise product of 2,
n^1 by one-dimensional vectors,
so the dimensions do match up.
One tip when
implementing backprop,
if you just make sure
that the dimensions of
your matrices match up,
if you think through,
what are the dimensions of
your various matrices
including w^1,
w^2, z^1, z^2, a^1,
a^2, and so on,
and just make sure that
the dimensions of these matrix
operations may match up,
sometimes that will already
eliminate quite a lot
of bugs in backprop.
This gives us dz^1.
Then finally,
just to wrap up, dw^1 and db^1,
we should write
them here, I guess.
But since I'm running
out of space,
I'll write them on the
right of the slide,
dw^1 and db^1 are given by
the following formulas.
This is going to equal to
dz^1 times x transpose,
and this is going
to be equal to dz.
You might notice a
similarity between
these equations and
these equations,
which is really no coincidence,
because x plays the role of a^0.
X transpose is a^0 transpose.
Those equations are
actually very similar.
That gives a sense for how
backpropagation is derived.
We have six key
equations here for dz_2,
dw_2, db_2, dz_1,
dw_1, and db_1.
Let me just take these
six equations and
copy them over to
the next slide.
Here they are. So
far we've derived
that propagation for training
on a single training
example at a time.
But it should come
as no surprise that
rather than working on a
single example at a time,
we would like to vectorize
across different
training examples.
You remember that for
a propagation when we're
operating on one
example at a time,
we had equations like this,
as well as say a^1
equals g^1 plus z^1.
In order to vectorize,
we took say,
the z's and stack them
up in columns like this,
z^1m, and call this capital Z.
Then we found that by
stacking things up in columns
and defining the capital
uppercase version of these,
we then just had z^1
equals to the w^1x plus
b and a^1 equals g^1 of z^1.
We defined the notation
very carefully
in this course to make sure that
stacking examples into
different columns
of a matrix makes
all this workout.
It turns out that if you go
through the math carefully,
the same trick also works
for backpropagation.
The vectorized equations
are as follows.
First, if you take this dzs for
different training
examples and stack
them as different
columns of a matrix,
same for this, same for this.
Then this is the
vectorized implementation.
Here's how you can compute dW^2.
There is this extra 1 over n
because the cost function J is
this 1 over m of the sum from I
equals 1 through
m of the losses.
When computing derivatives, we
have that extra 1 over m term,
just as we did when we were
computing the weight updates
for logistic regression.
That's the update
you get for db^2,
again, some of the dz's.
Then, we have 1 over m. Dz^1
is computed as follows.
Once again, this is an
element-wise product only,
whereas previously, we saw on
the previous slide that this was
an n1 by one-dimensional vector.
No w, this is n1 by m
dimensional matrix.
Both of these are also
n1 by m dimensional.
That's why that asterisk is
the element-wise product.
Finally, the
remaining two updates
perhaps shouldn't
look too surprising.
I hope that gives you
some intuition for how
the backpropagation
algorithm is derived.
In all of machine learning,
I think the derivation of the
backpropagation algorithm
is actually one of the most
complicated pieces
of math I've seen.
It requires knowing both
linear algebra as well as
the derivative of
matrices to really
derive it from scratch
from first principles.
If you are an expert
in matrix calculus,
using this process, you
might want to derive
the algorithm yourself.
But I think that there
actually plenty of
deep learning practitioners
that have seen
the derivation at
about the level you've
seen in this video
and are already
able to have all the right
intuitions and be able
to implement this algorithm
very effectively.
If you are an expert in calculus
do see if you can derive the
whole thing from scratch.
It is one of the hardest
pieces of math on
the very hardest derivations
that I've seen in all
of machine learning.
But either way, if
you implement this,
this will work and
I think you have
enough intuitions to tune
in and get it to work.
There's just one last detail,
my share of you before you
implement your neural network,
which is how to
initialize the weights
of your neural network.
It turns out that
initializing your
parameters not to zero,
but randomly turns out to be
very important for training
your neural network.
In the next video,
you'll see why.